Inductive bias is restricting your hypothesis space to a certain class of hypotheses. In simpler terms, it's a guess about what the function looks like, before looking at data. Take regression: if you have a finite set of points, you can draw infinitely many different functions that fit them. But if you assume that the function is linear, you remove almost all possibilities (there are still infinitely many linear functions, but way, way fewer than functions in general).

Common inductive biases are smoothness and sparsity. Pretty much all used models include smoothness somehow: similar inputs have similar outputs. Sparsity is also very common: it's the assumption that the function depends on few inputs.

Without an inductive bias, machine learning is impossible. If something in machine learning works well, more often than not it's because of its inductive bias. For example, convolutional neural networks are biased towards the kind of structure present in images: pixels next to each other are similar, there are similar features (e.g. eyes) present in different locations, big features are made of smaller features.

A consequence of this is the no-free-lunch theorem. If your inductive bias works well on some type of data, it has to work badly on other kinds of data. The same principle occurs in Bayesian inference. There, you formulate a prior distribution over the parameters you want to infer, specifying which parameters are likely and which are not (the distribution has to integrate to 1). Good priors make for efficient inference, bad priors can make inference impossible.